On an unasuming day, during an uneventful trip, a human spice merchant and his caravan came across a bundle of rags near the side of the road. Upon inspection, the bundle turned out to be an infant. Barely a week old, yet its orcish ancestry was as clear as day. After a short debate about what to do with the babe, the merchant decided to take it with him. On the way to his house on the outskirts of Waterdeep, the merchant dropped the babe off in an orphanage of the Sisters of Lathander in Amphail. Here he would be taught to read and write the common language, help the Sisters keep the grounds and tend to the oldest Sister.

Around James' 12th birthday, the spice merchant returned. Being a semi-generous benefactor of the orphanage, he occasionally stopped by to adopt a child. When he learned that James was a nimble child who won a lot of races to the top of the rafters, the choice for adoption was fast decided. The Reverend Mother warned the spice merchant that James had a tendency to be quite perceptive for his age, which could lead him to mischievous trouble. She never mentioned that the races in the rafters were an escape from bully human and dwarven children who despised James' orcish origin. And although she would never admit it to the spice merchant, she was secretly glad to be rid of the strange orc boy.

James was equally happy to turn his back to the orphanage. He would never forget the punishments for eating a slice of pie he smuggled out of the kitchen. Maybe it wasn't a single slice. The endless copying or reciting of passages from different holy scriptures was his personal hell. He preferred kneeling on rulers above the scriptures, at least then he could escape into his own mind. What he would miss the least were the other boys and girls. Their insults and beatings would remain fresh in his memory for a long time. No, wherever the merchant took him could not be worse than the orphanage.

He quickly learned that the friendly spice merchant, Reynaud Capsaux, actually led a vast network of spies, thieves and assassins. Each new son or daughter of Reynaud was placed under the tutelage of an experienced member of Reynauds organisation. After a few weeks with a burly brute, it became aparent that James did not posess the raw strenght of a typical half-orc. As an experiment, Reynaud paired James with the elf Kaylin Araleth, an experienced thief and assassin. James took to her lessons and trials like a fish to water.

Finding his place among his new disfunctional family, who welcomed him with open arms, James finally found purpose and meaning. Reynaud treated his network well. He paid them a decent wage, but in return demanded excellence. Kaylin not only taught James the art of pickpocketing, opening simple and complex locks and how to defend himself. She taught him the secret language of thieves, where hidden markings would be and how to spot which streets belonged to what gang. The strange orc boy conquered a special place in her heart. This lead to her teaching him the ancient elvish language.

After a few years of training and simple assignments such as delivering notes and lifting keys from targets, the moment had come for James' first big assignment. He was attached to Reynauds personal guard on a trip to the far east. Officially he travelled with Kaylin and others as caravan guards, but he had an ulterior assignment: kill the merchant king of Ordulin. After a long journey, a few encounters with bandits and varying degrees of corrupt gatekeepers, the caravan arrived in Ordulin.

James first encounter with foreign culture was an interesting experience. During his shifts, he kept guard around the caravan. During his off time, he scouted for a way to get close to the local merchant king who made life for various Waterdeep officials difficult. During his search, he learned a lot about the outlandish ways of the Sembians.

After some guidance from Kaylin, James found the perfect opening. During a banquet, he snuck inside as a servant and added a slow poison to the dessert of the merchant king. Neither the taster nor the merchant king noticed the poison until a few days later when it was too late. Kaylins lessons did not only include personal defense, but also pragmatic approaches to eliminating targets. James adopted her view that everything was fair in love and getting the job done.

Reynaud showed his gratitude towards all in his organisation that did a fine job. For he understood that happy members of his organisation were loyal members. Hard working members. And so James was awarded, in his eyes, a small fortune for a job well done. He knew exactly what he wanted to get with that money. A local swordsmith crafted beautiful weapons. The favourite of the local knights, or samourai as they were called, was a blade named a katana. The katana was too large a weapon to be handled deftly in James' hands. The smaller wakizashi shortsword and tanto knife where perfect for his fighting style. The shopkeep saw his interest in smaller and hidden weapons and recommended the shikomizue to him. At first glance, this looks like a stick to handle animals or a baton. With a flick of the wrist, it opens up and reveals a hidden sword much like the wakizashi.

With his new status as graduated assassin, he got more assignments. Sometimes he would need to steal documents unnoticed or place an item in a certain location. Other times they required him to eliminate certain targets. James completed most of his assignments succesfully but had his share of learning experiences.

Unbeknownst to anyone, Reynaud had become the target of competitor. While James and Kaylin were away on an assignment, a platoon of armed guards raided Reynauds compound. The corrupt officials that authorised this raid were persuaded, by coin of threat, to move against Reynaud. James returned to the burned out compound where he reunited with the handful of survivors and other members who were away at the time.

Kaylin took control and started a search for the man or organisation behind the raid. After initial investigation and interrogation, several leads emerged. Kaylin trusted James to investigate the lead into Baldurs Gate by himself.