Johan stopped his horse atop a hill overlooking Baldurs Gate. With the spiralling magisters' towers and imposing guard gates as backdrop, he sat down to eat lunch. The last bit of sponge cake he took from his parents' kitchen was getting a little stale after a few days on the road, but it was still delectable. Especially compared to the rations in his saddlebags. He grinned as he licked the last crumbs off of his fingers, his parents employed such good cooks.

He leaned back against a tree and contemplated how lucky he was to be living his dream life. Ever since he was little, he wanted to become like the heroes from his bedtime stories. Lancelot and Johannes the Red always had the best adventures. Rescuing damsels in distress, defeating dangerous dragons and thwarting coups were run of the mill assignments for those guys. A long time ago, Johan had sworn that he'd live that kind of life as well. Being hailed as a hero wherever he went.

After years of training, meditating and praying, it was finally going to come true. Even though he almost missed his chance. After he built himself into the perfect image of his heroes, physically fit and charming to boot, he almost wasn't picked for Jaeger training. It would have been a blemish on the von Batenberghs fame if he didn't get into the program. His two older brother, Vincent and Bartholomew, were Jaegers after all. So, his father pulled some strings, threw around some money and Johan began his training as one of the fabled Jaegers of Proskur. Being the son of a Councillor had its benefits.

The paladin order of Jaegers devotes their life to the god Heironeous. They take vows to protect the people of Proskur from evil and uphold the law of the king. They also hunt down and bring criminals outside of their borders to justice as part of their service to their king.

During his training, it became obvious that Johan was not too adept at sword fighting, but he excelled in taking a beating and getting back up again. Because he didn't get accepted based on his merits alone, almost none of the branches of the order took an interest in him. Except one paladin nearing retirement who was tucked away in an accounting department.

Disheartened by the lack of interest by the departments that Johan wanted to join, he started working for old Marcel Hagen with his heart in his shoes. After a few days, it became apparent that Johan did not have a head for keeping records and balancing books either. That is when Marcel revealed the other purpose, he chose Johan. He needed a guy who would bury himself into a case almost nobody believed in. Marcel had found a ring of corrupt paladins who were receiving payments from an unknown organisation. None of the payments themselves stood out and were seemingly made as donations to the order of Jaegers. But through informants, Marcel had learned that the payments directly benefited a few paladins or their families.

Unfortunately, none of the informants wanted to squeal on the powerful paladin order. Lacking the direct proof needed for a real investigation that would unmask the culprits, Marcel had set his sights on Johan to help him uncover the root of the corruption inside of the order of the Jaegers. After learning about a connection to Baldurs Gate, Marcel bestowed the task of uncovering the identity and goals of this mysterious organisation that infiltrated the Jaegers.

Johan slowly woke up from his noon nap and drowsily packed his belongings. His daydream left him with images of returning to Proskur as the big hero who had thwarted the plot to corrupt the Jaegers from the inside. But first, he needed to find the people responsible.